Hello and welcome back.
In this lesson, I will show you how to switch models between OpenAI and DeepSeek.
But you could switch to other models too if you like.
However, for demonstration purposes, I will use DeepSeek.
Head over to the DeepSeek website and sign up for an account.
If you see Chinese text, you can switch to English.
After logging in, click on Access API.
Top up some money.
You could use PayPal or credit card.
Then, create new API key.
Once it is created, copy it to a file.
If you forgot the key, you won't be able to view it again.
In that case, just delete the old key and create a new one.
There is no extra charge.
Then, we open a command prompt.
List the existing modules using this command
You will see that there is only one model configured
which is OpenAI GPT 5.4
and it is listed as the default
To add another model, we run this command
OpenClaw Onboard
Use arrow keys to select Yes
Select Manual
Select Update Values
Select Local Gateway
Do not change the workspace directory
Scroll down to DeepSeek
Paste in the API key
Select Keep Current
Accept the default gateway port
Select Loopback
Select Token
Select Off
Press Enter for generate Plaintext token
Use arrow button to select No
We already have telegram configured previously and do not wish to add another channel.
Select skip for now.
For skills, select no.
Press spacebar to select skip for now.
Again press spacebar to select skip for now.
Again select yes.
Just press enter.
Select restart.
Press enter yes.
Clear screen using command cls.
To open web UI, type in command, open claw dashboard, type in hello. It replies. Ask
it what model are you on, it replies saying it is on deep seek. So it works.
Go to telegram, clear history, start a new session, ask it the same question, and it
also confirms it is on deep seek.
In the terminal, clear the screen, then type in command, open claw models list.
You can see deep seek is the default, but GPT is still there.
Let's set it to GPT.
Use the command, open claw models set.
Highlight the model you want to set, and right click to copy it.
It confirms changing the default model to GPT 5.4.
We need to restart the gateway.
Use this command, openclaw gateway restart.
After restarting, ask it what model are you on, and it confirms it is on GPT 5.4.
In the terminal, we clear the screen, then list the models again.
Now, it shows the default model has been changed to GPT 5.4.
But DeepSeek is still there.
Let's change it back to DeepSeek.
Use the same command we used previously,
openclaw Model Set, select the DeepSeek full name,
and right-click to copy.
Paste it in.
It confirms changing the default model to DeepSeek.
Now, let's restart the gateway.
After restarting, we ask it, what model are you on?
If it still says GPT, we need to refresh the web UI.
Click on the Refresh button.
Then repeat the question.
Ask it to check again.
And now it confirms it is back on DeepSeek.
In the terminal, we clear the screen
and list the models again.
We see that the default model is now DeepSeek.
So this is how we can add another model and also how to easily switch models.
The same technique applies to other models as well.
That is all for this video.
Thanks for watching.